=head1 NAME

bolo2influxdb - Bolo InfluxDB Subscriber

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bolo2influxdb> -e tcp://bolo:port -H influx-ip:port

B<bolo2influxdb> -F

B<bolo2influxdb> -u nobody -g nogroup --pidfile /var/run/my.pid

=head1 DESCRIPTION

#INTRO

B<bolo2influxdb> is a subscriber that listens to SAMPLE, RATE and COUNTER
data broadcast by B<bolo> and transmits the values to an InfluxDB UDP
listener.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print version and copyright information.

=item B<-e>, B<--endpoint> I<tcp://host:port>

The bolo broadcast endpoint.  Defaults to I<tcp://127.0.0.1:2997>.
Supports DNS resolution for both IPv4 and IPv6 endpoints.

=item B<-S>, B<--submit> I<tcp://host:port>

The bolo listener endpoint.  Metrics collected by B<bolo2influxdb> will be
submitted here, for storage and aggregation.  Defaults to
I<tcp://127.0.0.1:2999>.  Supports DNS resolution for both IPv4 and IPv6
endpoints.

=item B<-H>, B<--influxdb> I<ip:port>

The IP address and port of the InfluxDB UDP listener.  Hostnames cannot
presently be used for this.  If not specified, the port defaults to I<8089>.

=item B<-P>, B<--prefix> I<PREFIX>

A string that will be used to prefix all submitted metric names.
Defaults to I<$fqdn:sys:bolo2influxdb>, where I<$fqdn> is the fully-qualified
domain name of the local host.

=item B<-F>, B<--foreground>

By default, B<bolo2influxdb> will fork into the background, detach its terminal
and daemonize itself.  This option inhibits that behavior, and also stops
its from setting the effective UID / GID (see B<-u> and B<-g>).

=item B<-p>, B<--pidfile> I</path/to/pidfile>

Specify where B<bolo2influxdb> should write its PID to, for control by init
scripts.  Defaults to B</var/run/bolo2influxdb.pid>.  Has no effect if B<-F> is
given.

=item B<-u>, B<--user> I<USERNAME>

=item B<-g>, B<--group> I<GROUP NAME>

User and group to drop privileges to.  By default, B<bolo2influxdb> will run as
root:root, which is probably not what you want.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Enable verbose mode, printing debugging information to standard error.

=back

=head1 COLLECTED METRICS

The following metrics are tracked and submitted back to bolo:

=over

=item B<dispatch.time.s>

How long it took the main thread to determine which worker pool (i.e.,
creators or updaters) to submit an inbound metric PDU to.  This includes the
time taken to generate the SHA1 checksum of the metric name, and the trip to
the filesystem cache to determine if the RRD file already exists.  The
median value of all collected samples will be submitted to the bolo core as
a SAMPLE metric.

=back

=head1 METRIC NAMES

Normally, B<bolo> collectors submit metrics with names like C<host1:cpu:free>.
InfluxDB, however, prefers to deal with attributes as first-class objects,
like C<host=host1,type=cpu>.

To that end, B<bolo2influxdb> classifies all metric names into the following
two patterns:

=over

=item B<host:type:metric>

=item B<host:type:item:metric>

=back

The C<host> and C<type> fields will be passed to InfluxDB as C<host=> and
C<type=> tags.  If present, the C<item> field will also be passed as a tag.

Note that C<item> may contain multiple colons.  These will be preserved.

If you want to see exactly how data is being sent to InfluxDB, you can
always set up a UDP listener with B<nc>(1), and point the subscriber at
that:

    $ nc -ul 8089
    $ bolo2influxdb -F -e tcp://$BOLO:2997 -H 127.0.0.1:8089

Whatever gets printed to the terminal where B<nc>(1) is running is what
will be seen by InfluxDB.

=head1 SEE ALSO

#SEEALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR
