=head1 NAME

bolo-cache - Bolo Caching Daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bolo cache> [options] -e tcp://bolo:2997 -B tcp://127.0.0.1:2997

=head1 DESCRIPTION

#INTRO

B<bolo cache> is a special bit of bolo infrastructure that subscribes to an upstream
B<bolo>(8) instance (the I<endpoint>), and caches all seen metric and state PDUs
while relaying them through to its own subscribers.  Additionally, it binds a control
port that allows clients to request a retransmission of all cached data, as if it were
being freshly broadcast, preserving timestamps.

This can be useful for stateless user tools that wish to have an up-to-date copy of
all known states and metrics, without having to store that state in a data store.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print version and copyright information.

=item B<-e>, B<--endpoint> I<tcp://host:port>

The bolo broadcast endpoint.  Defaults to I<tcp://127.0.0.1:2997>.
Supports DNS resolution for both IPv4 and IPv6 endpoints.

=item B<-B>, B<--broadcast> I<tcp://*:port>

Where to re-broadcast from.  Clients connecting to this port can expect the
exact same protocol as the B<bolo>(8) broadcast endpoint, with the potential for
repeats and re-transmissions of older PDUs.

Defaults to I<tcp://127.0.0.1:2897>.

=item B<-l>, B<--listen> I<tcp://*:port>

What address and port to bind on for the controller channel.  Clients can connect
to this (via a PUSH socket) and submit a B<REPEAT> PDU to cause a re-broadcast of all
known PDUs to all connected clients.

Defaults to I<tcp://127.0.0.1:2898>.

=item B<-F>, B<--foreground>

By default, B<bolo cache> will fork into the background, detach its terminal
and daemonize itself.  This option inhibits that behavior, and also stops
its from setting the effective UID / GID (see B<-u> and B<-g>).

=item B<-p>, B<--pidfile> I</path/to/pidfile>

Specify where B<bolo cache> should write its PID to, for control by init
scripts.  Defaults to B</var/run/bolo/cache.pid>.  Has no effect if B<-F> is
given.

=item B<-u>, B<--user> I<USERNAME>

=item B<-g>, B<--group> I<GROUP NAME>

User and group to drop privileges to.  By default, B<bolo cache> will run as
root:root, which is probably not what you want.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Enable verbose mode, printing debugging information to standard error.

=back

=head1 TRANSPARENT PROXY MODE

If you run B<bolo>(8) and bind its broadcast endpoint to something other
than I<tcp://*:2997> (say, for instance, I<tcp://127.0.0.1:1234>),
you can transparently front it with B<bolo cache> broadcasting on I<tcp://*:2997>
and clients will never know the difference.

=head1 SEE ALSO

#SEEALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR
