=head1 NAME

bolo send - Bolo Monitoring System Client

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bolo send> -t state name (ok|warning|critical|unknown) message string

B<bolo send> -t counter name [increment-value]

B<bolo send> -t sample name value [value ...]

B<bolo send> -t key key1=value1 key2=value2 ...

B<bolo send> -t event name [extra description ...]

./script | B<bolo send> -t stream

=head1 DESCRIPTION

#INTRO

B<bolo send> is a client that connects to a B<bolo> daemon and submits data.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-t>, B<--type> (state|counter|sample|key|event|stream)

Changes the behavior of B<bolo send>.  For all but I<stream>, B<bolo send>
will interpret the rest of its arguments as a single type of data to submit.

For B<-t state>, B<bolo send> expects three arguments: a state name, a
status code (one of I<ok>, I<warning>, I<critical> or I<unknown>), and a
message.  Any remaining arguments will be concatenated to the message
argument, separated by spaces (much like /bin/echo).

    bolo send -t state cpu warning CPU is 96.3% used

For B<-t counter>, provide the name of the counter and optionally, the value
to increment it by (which if not provided defaults to C<1>).

    bolo send -t counter eth0.drops 44

    bolo send -t counter logins

For B<-t sample>, the name and one or more values must be provided.  Each
value will be submitted.  For example, to submit three network packet/second
readings:

    bolo send -t sample packets-per-second  120.4  130.8  99.76

For B<-t key>, you should supply one or more arguments, of the format
C<key=value>:

    bolo send -t key hostname=host01 fqdn=host01.example.com

Finally, for B<-t event>, all you need to provide is the event name;
the remaining arguments will be treated as extra data for the event,
separated by a single space.

    bolo send -t event user.login jhacker logged in from 10.0.0.233

Stream mode (B<-t stream>) allows the caller to submit multiple types of
data within a single session, by reading specially-formatted lines on
standard input.

Known commands for stream mode are:

    STATE <timestamp> <name> (ok|warning|critical|unknown) <message>
    COUNTER <timestamp> <name> [<increment-value>]
    SAMPLE <timestamp> <name> <value1> [<value2> ...]
    KEY <key>=<value> ...
    EVENT <timestamp> <name> <extra data>

=item B<-e>, B<--endpoint> I<tcp://host:port>

The bolo listener to connect to.  Defaults to I<tcp://127.0.0.1:2999>.
Supports DNS resolution for both IPv4 and IPv6 endpoints.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

#SEEALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR
