=head1 NAME

bolo - Bolo Monitoring System Daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bolo> [options]

B<bolo> -c /path/to/bolo.conf

B<bolo> -F

=head1 DESCRIPTION

#INTRO

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print version and copyright information.

=item B<-c>, B<--config> I</path/to/bolo.conf>

Specify the path to an alternate configuration file.  If not given, the
default configuration file (/etc/bolo.conf) is used instead.

=item B<-F>, B<--foreground>

Normally, B<bolo> forks into the background and detaches from the
controlling terminal, so that it can run as a system service.  This flag
disables that behavior.  As a side effect, all logging will be forced to go
to standard output, regardless of what syslog facility is specified in the
configuration file.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item B</etc/bolo.conf>

Defaults configuration file that B<bolo> reads on start up.
See B<bolo.conf>(5) for details.

=item B</var/run/bolo.pid>

In daemon mode (the default, unless B<-F> is given), B<bolo> will write its
process ID to this file, so that other programs (like B</etc/init.d/bolo>)
can determine if the B<bolo> process is alive, and send signals to it.

This can be changed via B<bolo.conf>(5).

=item B</var/lib/bolo/save.db>

B<bolo> will periodically write everything it knows about states, events,
counters and samples to this file, so that the information persists across
program restarts, daemon crashes and system reboots.

This can be changed via B<bolo.conf>(5).

=back

=head1 NETWORK PRESENCE

B<bolo> binds to to three separate endpoints when it starts up.

The B<listener>, which normally binds to I<tcp://*:2999>, fields incoming
requests submitting data.  This port should be open to all monitored hosts
and devices.  B<bolo> cannot be queried via the listener endpoint.

The B<broadcast> endpoint (normally bound on I<tcp://*:2998>), is where
subscribers will connect when they wish to begin receiving broadcast data.
This port should only be open to other parts of your monitoring system,
since, by its nature, it will send out lots of potentially sensitive
information.

Finally, the B<controller> endpoint (I<tcp://127.0.0.1:2998>, by default),
allows clients like B<stat_bolo>(1) to query specific state and event
information.  Take great care when deciding what parts of your network can
access this port, since it affords lots of control over the bolo kernel.

All three of these endpoints can be changed via B<bolo.conf>(5).

=head1 SEE ALSO

#SEEALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR
