=head1 NAME

bolo2rrd - Bolo RRD Subscriber

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bolo2rrd> -r /path/to/rrds -e tcp://host:port

B<bolo2rrd> -F

B<bolo2rrd> -u nobody -g nogroup --pidfile /var/run/my.pid

=head1 DESCRIPTION

#INTRO

B<bolo2rrd> is a subscriber that listens to SAMPLE data broadcast by B<bolo>
and stores it in round-robin database files.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print version and copyright information.

=item B<-e>, B<--endpoint> I<tcp://host:port>

The bolo broadcast endpoint.  Defaults to I<tcp://127.0.0.1:2999>.
Supports DNS resolution for both IPv4 and IPv6 endpoints.

=item B<-r>, B<--root> I</path/to/rrds>

What directory to create RRD files in.  Defaults to I</var/lib/bolo/rrd>.

=item B<-F>, B<--foreground>

By default, B<bolo2rrd> will fork into the background, detach its terminal
and daemonize itself.  This option inhibits that behavior, and also stops
its from setting the effective UID / GID (see B<-u> and B<-g>).

=item B<-p>, B<--pidfile> I</path/to/pidfile>

Specify where B<bolo2rrd> should write its PID to, for control by init
scripts.  Defaults to B</var/run/bolo2rrd>.  Has no effect if B<-F> is
given.

=item B<-u>, B<--user> I<USERNAME>

=item B<-g>, B<--group> I<GROUP NAME>

User and group to drop privileges to.  By default, B<bolo2rrd> will run as
root:root, which is probably not what you want.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Enable verbose mode, printing debugging information to standard error.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

#SEEALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR
