=head1 NAME

bolo2redis - Bolo Redis Subscriber

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bolo2redis> -e tcp://host:port -H redis.my.domain -P 6379

B<bolo2redis> -F

B<bolo2redis> -u nobody -g nogroup --pidfile /var/run/my.pid

=head1 DESCRIPTION

#INTRO

B<bolo2redis> is a subscriber that listens for KEY data and forwards it onto
a Redis key-value store.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print version and copyright information.

=item B<-e>, B<--endpoint> I<tcp://host:port>

The bolo broadcast endpoint.  Defaults to I<tcp://127.0.0.1:2997>.
Supports DNS resolution for both IPv4 and IPv6 endpoints.

=item B<-H>, B<--host> I<redis.fq.dn>

The hostname or IP address of the Redis server to submit key/value data to.
Defaults to I<127.0.0.1>.

=item B<-P>, B<--port> I<6379>

The TCP port that Redis is listening on.  Defaults to I<6379>, the standard
Redis port.

=item B<-F>, B<--foreground>

By default, B<bolo2redis> will fork into the background, detach its terminal
and daemonize itself.  This option inhibits that behavior, and also stops
its from setting the effective UID / GID (see B<-u> and B<-g>).

=item B<-p>, B<--pidfile> I</path/to/pidfile>

Specify where B<bolo2redis> should write its PID to, for control by init
scripts.  Defaults to B</var/run/bolo2redis.pid>.  Has no effect if B<-F> is
given.

=item B<-u>, B<--user> I<USERNAME>

=item B<-g>, B<--group> I<GROUP NAME>

User and group to drop privileges to.  By default, B<bolo2redis> will run as
root:root, which is probably not what you want.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Enable verbose mode, printing debugging information to standard error.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

#SEEALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR
