=head1 NAME

bolo2meta - Bolo Meta Performance Subscriber

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bolo2meta>

B<bolo2meta> -e tcp://host:port -F

B<bolo2meta> -u nobody -g nogroup --pidfile /var/run/my.pid

=head1 DESCRIPTION

#INTRO

B<bolo2meta> is a subscriber that listens to all data broadcast by B<bolo>
and reports in new metrics about the throughput of the subscriber subsystem.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print version and copyright information.

=item B<-e>, B<--endpoint> I<tcp://host:port>

The bolo broadcast endpoint.  Defaults to I<tcp://127.0.0.1:2997>.
Supports DNS resolution for both IPv4 and IPv6 endpoints.

=item B<-S>, B<--submit> I<tcp://host:port>

The bolo listener endpoint.  Metrics collected by B<bolo2meta> will be
submitted here, for storage and aggregation.  Defaults to
I<tcp://127.0.0.1:2999>.  Supports DNS resolution for both IPv4 and IPv6
endpoints.

=item B<-P>, B<--prefix> I<PREFIX>

A string that will be used to prefix all submitted metric names.
Defaults to I<$fqdn:sys:bolo>, where I<$fqdn> is the fully-qualified domain
name of the local host.

=item B<-F>, B<--foreground>

By default, B<bolo2meta> will fork into the background, detach its terminal
and daemonize itself.  This option inhibits that behavior, and also stops
its from setting the effective UID / GID (see B<-u> and B<-g>).

=item B<-p>, B<--pidfile> I</path/to/pidfile>

Specify where B<bolo2meta> should write its PID to, for control by init
scripts.  Defaults to B</var/run/bolo2meta.pid>.  Has no effect if B<-F> is
given.

=item B<-u>, B<--user> I<USERNAME>

=item B<-g>, B<--group> I<GROUP NAME>

User and group to drop privileges to.  By default, B<bolo2meta> will run as
root:root, which is probably not what you want.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Enable verbose mode, printing debugging information to standard error.

=back

=head1 COLLECTED METADATA

The following metrics are tracked and submitted back to bolo:

=over

=item B<state>

=item B<bogon.state>

=item B<sample>

=item B<bogon.sample>

=item B<rate>

=item B<bogon.rate>

=item B<counter>

=item B<bogon.counter>

=item B<transition>

=item B<bogon.transition>

=item B<event>

=item B<bogon.event>

=item B<bogon.unknown>

=back

Each tracks the number of broadcast PDUs seen as a COUNTER.  This allows the
bolo core to be configured however the administrator sees fit with respect
to windows and intervals.

The B<bogon.*> metrics track how many malformed broadcast PDUs were seen, of
each type.  In this context, a malformed PDU is one with the correct PDU
type (i.e. C<STATE> or C<SAMPLE>) but the wrong number of data frames.

The B<bogon.unknown> metric tracks unknown PDU types.

Ideally, all of the B<bogon.*> metrics will always be zero.  If not, the
broadcasting bolo core is either experiencing network problems (highly
unlikely, but possible) or is buggy.

Each of these metrics is submitted to the core every 5 seconds, even if the
value of the metric is 0.

=head1 SEE ALSO

#SEEALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR
