=head1 NAME

opentsdb2bolo - OpenTSDB receiver for Bolo

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<opentsdb2bolo> -S tcp://bolo:2999 -l '10.244.0.6:13381'

B<opentsdb2bolo> -F

B<opentsdb2bolo> -u nobody -g nogroup --pidfile /var/run/my.pid

=head1 DESCRIPTION

#INTRO

B<opentsdb2bolo> is a receiver that translates non-HTTP OpenTSDB protocol
messages of the following form:

    put METRIC TIMESTAMP VALUE TAG[,TAG...]

into SAMPLE metrics and submits them to an upstream bolo aggregator.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print version and copyright information.

=item B<-S>, B<--submit> I<tcp://host:port>

The bolo data submission endpoint.  Defaults to I<tcp://127.0.0.1:2999>.
Supports DNS resolution for both IPv4 and IPv6 endpoints.

=item B<-l>, B<--listen> I<host[:port]>

The IP address and (optional) port to bind to and listen on for inbound
OpenTSDB messages.  If the port is not specified, the standard port 13321
will be used.  To bind all interfaces, pass the host component as C<*>, and
note that this may require quoting to avoid shell glob expansion.

Defaults to C<*:13321>.

=item B<-m>, B<--max-connections> I<N>

The maximum number of concurrent client connections that this receiver is
willing to service.  Defaults ti I<1024>.

=item B<-P>, B<--prefix> I<PREFIX>

If specified, prefix all translated metric names with the given prefix.

=item B<-F>, B<--foreground>

By default, B<opentsdb2bolo> will fork into the background, detach its
terminal and daemonize itself.  This option inhibits that behavior, and also
stops its from setting the effective UID / GID (see B<-u> and B<-g>).

=item B<-p>, B<--pidfile> I</path/to/pidfile>

Specify where B<opentsdb2bolo> should write its PID to, for control by init
scripts.  Defaults to B</var/run/opentsdb2bolo.pid>.  Has no effect if B<-F>
is given.

=item B<-u>, B<--user> I<USERNAME>

=item B<-g>, B<--group> I<GROUP NAME>

User and group to drop privileges to.  By default, B<opentsdb2bolo> will run
as root:root, which is probably not what you want.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Enable verbose mode, printing debugging information to standard error.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

#SEEALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR
