=head1 NAME

stat_bolo - Bolo Monitoring System Controller

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<stat_bolo> [-l] [-e tcp://host:port]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

#INTRO

B<stat_bolo> is a clent that connects to a B<bolo> daemon and either submits
commands or listens the the broadcast stream.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print version and copyright information.

=item B<-e>, B<--endpoint> I<tcp://host:port>

What endpoint to connect to.  Defaults to I<tcp://127.0.0.1:2998>
(controller endpoint) for command mode, and I<tcp://127.0.0.1:2997>
for listen mode (B<-l>).

Supports DNS resolution for both IPv4 and IPv6 endpoints.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Enable verbose mode, printing debugging information to standard error.

=back

=head1 COMMAND MODE

In command mode, B<stat_bolo> accepts commands on standard input, and
communicates them to the bolo daemon via its controller endpoint (which
should be specified via the B<-e> option.

The following commands are understood:

=over

=item B<stat> STATE-NAME

Retrieve the current status and summary message of the given state.

=item B<set.keys> KEY1 VALUE1 [KEY2 VALUE2 ...]

Set one or more keys and their values.

=item B<get.keys> KEY1 [KEY2 ...]

Retrieve the value for one or more keys, by name.

=item B<del.keys> KEY1 [KEY2 ...]

Delete the named keys from the B<bolo> keystore.

=item B<search.keys> PATTERN

List out keys that match the given pattern.

=item B<get.events> [SINCE]

Retrieve and print the list of buffered events that occurred on or after
the given timestamp.  If there is no timestamp, all events are retrieved.

=item B<dump>

Dump the state data, as YAML.

=back

=head1 LISTEN MODE

In listen mode, B<stat_bolo> connects to the bolo broadcast endpoint and
then prints each frame received to standard output.  PDU boundaries are
terminated by newlines.

=head1 SEE ALSO

#SEEALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

#AUTHOR
